# Tableau-Analysis
Module 18
Tableau URL: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/melissa.judy/viz/NYBikeReviewMod18/JulyDashboard#1
______________________________
NY Citi Bike Analysis

Overall conclusions:  The NYC Bike Program is a well-utilized program that is quite popular over the summer months (using 2023 data).  Though most of the users are members, rather than casual users, the usage is in the thousands between June-August. A city official could quickly look at the first page of the story to see the location of the stations, then look at the dashboards to find the more popular stations for starting and ending a bike ride.

Dashboard analysis (July and August):  There are two dashboards, July and August, to focus on the busy summer months.  The structure of the dashboard is the same for each month.  In those months, the 10 most popular stations to either start or end at were on the New Jersey side of the water.  Moreover, a majority of the popular stations for bike use are at or near transit stations.  It could be inferred that many users choose to find a bike in order to ride to/from a larger transit station.  This perspective is further supported by looking at the start time people begin their bike usage.  Both months have an increase of usage during stereotypical rush hours of 7-8AM and 5-6PM.  This makes sense as that area is known for their public transportation and a lot of people commute to work at those times.  I think bikes are an excellent intermediary for those who don’t want to use a car, but the distance to a larger transport hub might be too long or too far to walk to. 
How to use the dashboards: The 10 most popular start and end stations for bike use are highlighted on the left hand map (the color denotes starting stations and the size denotes end stations).  The dashboard user can use the dropdown menu at the top right of the map title to narrow in on the user type (member or casual).  Moreover, the dashboard has an option for people to click on the dots denoting the hours in the day on the chart titled, “Hour of start time in July/August.”  Click on the circle and the dashboard will highlight the breakdown of the user type, bike type, and station.  Double click again in the box to clear the highlight or choose another hour start time.

Story analysis (Bike duration):  Considering the two dashboards, the story looks more into the length of time a user is on the bike.  Looking at the three summer months of June, July, and August, across the board, people are using the bikes most often for 5-10 minutes.  This could support the idea that people are using it to quickly get to or from a larger transit hub rather than using it for recreation or exercise.  It was surprising that e-bikes were not more popular.  This might be because of pricing or availability.  However, casual riders were more likely to use the electric option overall than members.   
	Getting this data: To find the duration of bike rides, I imported the CSV files from the Citi Bike Data site into a Jupyter Notebook.  Then I changed the started_at and ended_at columns to datetime.  Once they were in the correct format, I subtracted started_at from ended_at and added the difference to a new column titled duration.  I then saved the new CSV files to be used in Tableau.  One tutor, Lebuso, helped me with this process.

Other worksheets to note: When assembling the dashboards and story, not everything could be included.  Two worksheets of note are the “July Least Pop”, and “Aug Least Pop”.  These two worksheets looked at the 10 least popular start and end stations for bike usage.  For both months, these less popular locations might be further away from transit hubs, in an area with more room for cars (and therefore less need for bikes), or have limited docking stations.  If spending becomes an issue, officials could look at creating marketing to build up the presence of these bike options or opt to remove them and focus on more stations near the harbor.   
